HiMemCE
=======

HiMemCE is a high memory loader for Windows CE.  It softens the 32 MB
process limit by allowing the EXE to load in the large file area
reserved for file mappings.  This way, the EXE can be as large as free
unfragmented virtual memory in that region, or free physical memory
(whatever is smaller).  By linking libraries statically to the
program, problems with too large or too many DLLs can be avoided.

The usage of the loader is very simple.

1. First, the program to be loaded has to be linked with the option
/FIXED:NO (in MSVS, this setting can be found under Properties,
Configuration Properties, Linker, Advanced, Fixed Base Address, choose
"Generate a relocation section").  Here is a CMake example:

SET_TARGET_PROPERTIES(foo PROPERTIES LINK_FLAGS " /FIXED:NO")

2. Install the program "foo" under foo-real.exe, and copy the loader's
himemce.exe side-by-side to it as foo.exe.  Then the loader (as
foo.exe) transparently proxies all start ups of the foo program.  It
will automatically look for foo-real.exe and load that into high
memory, continueing execution there.

Contained in this package is a himemce-real.exe, that serves as an
example/test program.  In the special case of "himemce.exe", verbose
output is on by default.

How it works
------------

HiMemCE allocates a virtual memory region with VirtulAlloc
(MEM_RESERVE, PAGE_NOACCESS) large enough to cover the whole image
(SizeOfImage).  If that is larger than 2 MB, Windows CE automatically
uses the large memory area for the allocation.  Then HiMemCE loads the
sections into the designated place.  This immediately commits all
pages[1].

The image is then relocated (this is why /FIXED:NO is required).
Although an attempt is made to honor the preferred base address, once
all pages are copied, there is no big advantage to avoiding
relocating, so setting a preferred base address (without a way to also
use MapViewOfFile) is currently not recommended.

The next step is to resolve imports.  For this, the import section is
processed, and for each DLL listed there, we use LoadLibrary to pass
off the load request to the system loader.  We don't do any DLL
loading ourselves[1].  For every DLL loaded this way, we resolve
references by GetProcAddress, which supports lookup by name as well as
by ordinal.

Finally, pass execution to the loaded program.  Because the entry
point is a normal C function, we can reuse the current thread and all
its state.  The first argument is the module handle of the started
image.  As we constructed this ourselve, there is no valid module
handle for it, so we reuse the module handle of the loader as well.[3]
Because this affects argv[0], we give the loader the same name as the
executable we want to load (and rename the loaded executable to
foo-real.exe).


Footnotes

[1] This is a pessimization, but because only MapViewOfFile and
not MapVieOfFileEx is available, mapping in the read only sections of
the file directly is difficult, and when relocating the image, many
pages end up being dirty anyway.  See Optimization options.

[2] This avoids the complexity of sharing DLLs across applications as
well as walking the dependency chain.  A more complex loader, that can
also load DLLs and thus effectively extend the slot 61 and 60 by
further slots is feasible, but quite a bit of work.  The only benefit
over static linking this has is code sharing, but if we are only
talking about a couple of MB, then code duplication across a small
number of programs is not a big problem.  And the number of processes
in Windows CE is necessarily small!

[3] Note that this could confuse some programs that do deep
introspection and want to manually load custom sections or do other
magic.


TODO
----

* Allow misaligned sections in map_image.

* Switch off verbose output for non-himemce.exe named copies of
the loader (but allow a switch --himemce-log to switch it back on).

* Show load errors in a diagnostic window for the user.


Optimization options
--------------------

* Physical memory pressure can be relieved by trying to use
  MapViewOfFile opportunistically (create relocated image, save to
  temporary file, map it).


 Copyright 2010 g10 Code GmbH

 This file is free software; as a special exception the author gives
 unlimited permission to copy and/or distribute it, with or without
 modifications, as long as this notice is preserved.

 This file is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
 WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law; without even the
 implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
